readme.md, before:

## Typed

*Making `map[string]interface{}` slightly less painful*

It isn't always desirable or even possible to decode JSON into a structure. That, unfortunately, leaves us with writing ugly code around `map[string]interface{}` and `[]interace{}`.

This library hopes to make that slightly less painful.

## Install

    go get github.com/karlseguin/typed

## Note

While the library could be used with any `map[string]interface{}`, it *is* tailored to be used with `encoding/json`. Specifically, it won't ever try to convert data, except for integers (which `encoding/json` treats as floats).

## Usage:

A typed wrapper around a `map[string]interface{}` can be created in one of three ways:

```go
// directly from a map[string]interace{}
typed := typed.New(a_map)

// from a json []byte
typed, err := typed.Json(data)

// from a file containing JSON
typed, err := typed.JsonFile(path)
```

Once we have a typed wrapper, we can use various functions to navigate the structure:

- Bool(key string) bool
- Int(key string) int
- Float(key string) float64
- String(key string) string

- BoolOr(key string, defaultValue bool) bool
- IntOr(key string, defaultValue int) int
- FloatOr(key string, defaultValue float64) float64
- StringOr(key string, defaultValue string) string

- BoolIf(key string) (bool, bool)
- IntIf(key string) (int, bool)
- FloatIf(key string) (float, bool)
- StringIf(key string) (string, bool)

We can also extract arrays via:

- Bools(key string) []bool
- Ints(key string) []int
- Floats(key string) []float64
- Strings(key string) []string
- StringsOr(key string, defaultValue []string) []string
- BoolsOr(key string, defaultValue []bool) []bool
- IntsOr(key string, defaultValue []int) []int
- FloatsOr(key string, defaultValue []float64) []float64

We can extract nested objects, other as another typed wrapper, or as a raw `map[string]interface{}`:

- Object(key string) Typed
- ObjectOr(key string, map[string]interface) Typed
- ObjectIf(key string) (Typed, bool)
- Objects(key string) []Typed

- Map(key string) map[string]interface{}
- MaoOr(key string, map[string]interface) map[string]interface{}
- MapIf(key string) (map[string]interface{}, bool)
- Maps(key string) []map[string]interface{}

We can extract key value pairs:

- StringBool(key string) map[string]bool
- StringInt(key string) map[string]int
- StringFloat(key string) map[string]float64
- StringString(key string) map[string]string
- StringObject(key string) map[string]Typed

## Misc

`ToBytes(key string) ([]byte, error)` can be used to get the JSON data, as a []byte, from the Type. `KeyNotFound` will be returned if the key isn't valid.

## Example

```go
package main

import (
  "fmt"
  "typed"
)

func main() {
  json := `
{
  "log": true,
  "name": "leto",
  "percentiles": [75, 85, 95],
  "server": {
    "port": 9001,
    "host": "localhost"
  },
  "cache": {
    "users": {"ttl": 5}
  },
  "blocked": {
    "10.10.1.1": true
  }
}`
  typed, err := typed.Json([]byte(json))
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
  }

  fmt.Println(typed.Bool("log"))
  fmt.Println(typed.String("name"))
  fmt.Println(typed.Ints("percentiles"))
  fmt.Println(typed.FloatOr("load", 0.5))

  server := typed.Object("server")
  fmt.Println(server.Int("port"))
  fmt.Println(server.String("host"))

  fmt.Println(typed.Map("server"))

  fmt.Println(typed.StringObject("cache")["users"].Int("ttl"))
  fmt.Println(typed.StringBool("blocked")["10.10.1.1"])
}
```

# Misc

The [JsonWriter](https://github.com/karlseguin/jsonwriter) library provides the opposite functionality: a lightweight approaching to writing JSON data.

Commit message:

added support for root arrays

readme.md, after:

## Typed

*Making `map[string]interface{}` slightly less painful*

It isn't always desirable or even possible to decode JSON into a structure. That, unfortunately, leaves us with writing ugly code around `map[string]interface{}` and `[]interace{}`.

This library hopes to make that slightly less painful.

## Install

    go get github.com/karlseguin/typed

## Note

While the library could be used with any `map[string]interface{}`, it *is* tailored to be used with `encoding/json`. Specifically, it won't ever try to convert data, except for integers (which `encoding/json` treats as floats).

## Usage:

A typed wrapper around a `map[string]interface{}` can be created in one of three ways:

```go
// directly from a map[string]interace{}
typed := typed.New(a_map)

// from a json []byte
typed, err := typed.Json(data)

// from a file containing JSON
typed, err := typed.JsonFile(path)
```

Once we have a typed wrapper, we can use various functions to navigate the structure:

- Bool(key string) bool
- Int(key string) int
- Float(key string) float64
- String(key string) string

- BoolOr(key string, defaultValue bool) bool
- IntOr(key string, defaultValue int) int
- FloatOr(key string, defaultValue float64) float64
- StringOr(key string, defaultValue string) string

- BoolIf(key string) (bool, bool)
- IntIf(key string) (int, bool)
- FloatIf(key string) (float, bool)
- StringIf(key string) (string, bool)

We can also extract arrays via:

- Bools(key string) []bool
- Ints(key string) []int
- Floats(key string) []float64
- Strings(key string) []string
- StringsOr(key string, defaultValue []string) []string
- BoolsOr(key string, defaultValue []bool) []bool
- IntsOr(key string, defaultValue []int) []int
- FloatsOr(key string, defaultValue []float64) []float64

We can extract nested objects, other as another typed wrapper, or as a raw `map[string]interface{}`:

- Object(key string) Typed
- ObjectOr(key string, map[string]interface) Typed
- ObjectIf(key string) (Typed, bool)
- Objects(key string) []Typed

- Map(key string) map[string]interface{}
- MaoOr(key string, map[string]interface) map[string]interface{}
- MapIf(key string) (map[string]interface{}, bool)
- Maps(key string) []map[string]interface{}

We can extract key value pairs:

- StringBool(key string) map[string]bool
- StringInt(key string) map[string]int
- StringFloat(key string) map[string]float64
- StringString(key string) map[string]string
- StringObject(key string) map[string]Typed

## Misc

### To Bytes
`ToBytes(key string) ([]byte, error)` can be used to get the JSON data, as a []byte, from the Type. `KeyNotFound` will be returned if the key isn't valid.


### Root Array

Support for JSON document with arrays at their root is supported so long as the array contains complex structures (map[string]interface{}).

For example, this **is** supported:

```json
[
  {"name":"leto"},
  {"name":"ghanima"}
]
```

While this **is not** supported:

```json
[1, 2, 3, null, "abc"]
```

Use the `JsonArray(data []byte)`, `JsonStringArray(data string)` and `JsonFileArary(path string)` to receive an `[]Typed`

## Example

```go
package main

import (
  "fmt"
  "typed"
)

func main() {
  json := `
{
  "log": true,
  "name": "leto",
  "percentiles": [75, 85, 95],
  "server": {
    "port": 9001,
    "host": "localhost"
  },
  "cache": {
    "users": {"ttl": 5}
  },
  "blocked": {
    "10.10.1.1": true
  }
}`
  typed, err := typed.Json([]byte(json))
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
  }

  fmt.Println(typed.Bool("log"))
  fmt.Println(typed.String("name"))
  fmt.Println(typed.Ints("percentiles"))
  fmt.Println(typed.FloatOr("load", 0.5))

  server := typed.Object("server")
  fmt.Println(server.Int("port"))
  fmt.Println(server.String("host"))

  fmt.Println(typed.Map("server"))

  fmt.Println(typed.StringObject("cache")["users"].Int("ttl"))
  fmt.Println(typed.StringBool("blocked")["10.10.1.1"])
}
```

# Misc

The [JsonWriter](https://github.com/karlseguin/jsonwriter) library provides the opposite functionality: a lightweight approaching to writing JSON data.
